Make docs more readable and force one Markdown-style (#85)
shalb/cluster.dev: docs/add-provider-provisioner.md

permalink: /add-provider-provisioner/
---

## Adding a New Provider or Provisioner <!-- omit in toc -->

* [1. Create cluster manifest](#1-create-cluster-manifest)
* [2. Create Github Action and Gitlab pipeline](#2-create-github-action-and-gitlab-pipeline)
* [3. Define required treatment in main function](#3-define-required-treatment-in-main-function)
* [4. Define cloud related functions](#4-define-cloud-related-functions)
* [5. Create cleanup function](#5-create-cleanup-function)
* [6. Set cloud provisioner type](#6-set-cloud-provisioner-type)
* [7. Deploy mandatory addons](#7-deploy-mandatory-addons)
* [8. Test build](#8-test-build)

### 1. Create cluster manifest

Create a sample yaml cluster manifest with declaration for possible options in yaml and its naming.  
Naming for the options should be aligned with correspondent names in terraform provider or module.  

> List of options, should be set in [OPTIONS.md](OPTIONS.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the list of options in [OPTIONS.md](OPTIONS.md).
```

### 2. Create Github Action and Gitlab pipeline

Defining required cloud authentication credentials, like Username/Password, Personal Access Tokens, or Access files.

### 3. Define required treatment in main function

Example:

```bash
# entrypoint.sh
    digitalocean)
        DEBUG "Cloud Provider: DigitalOcean"
        ;;
```

### 4. Define cloud related functions

Define cloud related functions in a dedicated file, for ex: `/bin/digitalocean_common.sh`.

Required functions:

> | Function name       | What function should do                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Function name       | What the function should do                                                |
```

| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `init_state_bucket` | check if exist and create a storage for terraform state                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `init_state_bucket` | checks if the bucket exists and creates a storage for terraform state                |
```

| `init_vpc`          | check and create required segmentation (this could be VPC, or Project) |
| `init_dns_zone`     | create a dns sub-zone which will be used for cluster services exposing |

> ### 5. Create cleanup function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5. Create the cleanup function
```

> Create a functions which deletes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a function that deletes:
```

* kubernetes cluster
* vpc/project
* domains

with dependent resources on yaml option `installed:false`

> ### 6. Set cloud provisioner type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 6. Set the cloud provisioner type
```

> The options on provisioners could different even inside same cloud provider ex: Minikube, EKS, K3s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The options on provisioners could differ even inside the same cloud provider, ex: Minikube, EKS, K3s.
```

> The required set of functions are next:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required set of functions is as follows:
```

> | Function name        | What function should do                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Function name        | What the function should do                                                           |
```

| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `deploy_cluster`     | Deploy kubernetes cluster itself - save result in separate tf-state               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `deploy_cluster`     | Deploy kubernetes cluster itself - save result in a separate tf-state               |
```

> | `pull_kubeconfig`    | Obtain kubeconfig from created cluster to use in next steps with tf/helm          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `pull_kubeconfig`    | Obtain kubeconfig from the created cluster to use in the next steps with tf/helm          |
```

> | `init_addons`        | Install mandatory kubernetes addons (see next step) - result as separate tf-state |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `init_addons`        | Install mandatory kubernetes addons (see next step) - write the result as a separate tf-state |
```

> | `deploy_apps`        | Deploy/reconcile other applications from user's repository from defined folder    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `deploy_apps`        | Deploy/reconcile other applications from user's repository, from the defined folder    |
```

| `output_access_keys` | Add output with credentials URL's and other access parameters                     |

### 7. Deploy mandatory addons

> Deploy a mandatory addons for cluster (`deploy_apps`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy mandatory addons for the cluster (`deploy_apps`):
```

* Storage Class for creating a PVC/PV

> * Ingress Controller to serve traffic inside cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ingress Controller to serve traffic inside the cluster
```

* CertManager to create and manage certificates
* ExternalDNS to create DNS records

> * ArgoCD to deploy an applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ArgoCD to deploy an application
```

### 8. Test build

> To test successful build - deploy a sample applications from `/kubernetes/apps/samples/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test whether the build is successful, deploy a sample application from `/kubernetes/apps/samples/`.
```
